M r. and Mrs. Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were
proud to say that they were perfectly normal, thank
you very much.  ey were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t
hold with such nonsense.
Mr. Dursley was the director of a fi rm called Grunnings, which
made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck, although he did have a very large mustache. Mrs. Dursley was thin
and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck, which
came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning over
garden fences, spying on the neighbors.  e Dursleys had a small
son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no fi ner boy
anywhere.
 e Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a
secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover it.
the boy who lived

2
 ey didn’t think they could bear it if anyone found out about the
Potters. Mrs. Potter was Mrs. Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t met
for several years; in fact, Mrs. Dursley pretended she didn’t have a
sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband were
as unDursleyish as it was possible to be.  e Dursleys shuddered
to think what the neighbors would say if the Potters arrived in the
street.  e Dursleys knew that the Potters had a small son, too, but
they had never even seen him.  is boy was another good reason
for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t want Dudley mixing with
a child like that.
When Mr. and Mrs. Dursley woke up on the dull, gray Tuesday
our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to
suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr. Dursley hummed as he picked out his
most boring tie for work, and Mrs. Dursley gossiped away happily
as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large, tawny owl fl utter past the
 window.
At half past eight, Mr. Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked
Mrs. Dursley on the cheek, and tried to kiss Dudley good-bye but
missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing
his cereal at the walls. “Little tyke,” chortled Mr. Dursley as he left
the house. He got into his car and backed out of number four’s
drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the fi rst sign
of something peculiar — a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr.
Dursley didn’t realize what he had seen — then he jerked his head
around to look again.  ere was a tabby cat standing on the corner
chapter one
01_Bo
3
of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What could he
have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light. Mr.
Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr. Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the cat in
his mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive — no,
looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr. Dursley
gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his mind. As he
drove toward town he thought of nothing except a large order of
drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind
by something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffi c jam, he
couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely
dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr. Dursley couldn’t bear
people who dressed in funny clothes — the getups you saw on
young people! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He
drummed his fi ngers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a
huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by.  ey were whispering excitedly together. Mr. Dursley was enraged to see that a
couple of them weren’t young at all; why, that man had to be older
than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak!  e nerve of
him! But then it struck Mr. Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt — these people were obviously collecting for something
. . . yes, that would be it.  e traffi c moved on and a few minutes
later, Mr. Dursley arrived in the Grunnings parking lot, his mind
back on drills.
Mr. Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his offi ce
on the ninth fl oor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it harder to
concentrate on drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls swooping
the boy who lived
01_
4
past in broad daylight, though people down in the street did; they
pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after owl sped overhead.
Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr. Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled
at fi ve diff erent people. He made several important telephone calls
and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good mood until lunchtime, when he thought he’d stretch his legs and walk across the
road to buy himself a bun from the bakery.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed
a group of them next to the baker’s. He eyed them angrily as he
passed. He didn’t know why, but they made him uneasy.  is
bunch were whispering excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single
collecting tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a large
doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were
saying.
“ e Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard —”
“— yes, their son, Harry —”
Mr. Dursley stopped dead. Fear fl ooded him. He looked back
at the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but
thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his offi ce, snapped
at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone, and had
almost fi nished dialing his home number when he changed his
mind. He put the receiver back down and stroked his mustache,
thinking . . . no, he was being stupid. Potter wasn’t such an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people called Potter who
had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, he wasn’t even sure his
nephew was called Harry. He’d never even seen the boy. It might
chapter one

5
have been Harvey. Or Harold.  ere was no point in worrying
Mrs. Dursley; she always got so upset at any mention of her sister.
He didn’t blame her — if he’d had a sister like that . . . but all the
same, those people in cloaks . . .
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon
and when he left the building at fi ve o’clock, he was still so worried
that he walked straight into someone just outside the door.
“Sorry,” he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost
fell. It was a few seconds before Mr. Dursley realized that the man
was wearing a violet cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being almost knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split into a
wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passersby stare,
“Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy, happy day!”
And the old man hugged Mr. Dursley around the middle and
walked off .
Mr. Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a
complete stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle,
whatever that was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set
off for home, hoping he was imagining things, which he had never
hoped before, because he didn’t approve of imagination.
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the fi rst thing he
saw — and it didn’t improve his mood — was the tabby cat he’d
spotted that morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He
was sure it was the same one; it had the same markings around its
eyes.
“Shoo!” said Mr. Dursley loudly.
the boy who lived
0
6
 e cat didn’t move. It just gave him a stern look. Was this normal cat behavior? Mr. Dursley wondered. Trying to pull himself together, he let himself into the house. He was still determined not to
mention anything to his wife.
Mrs. Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him over dinner all about Mrs. Next Door’s problems with her daughter and how
Dudley had learned a new word (“Won’t!”). Mr. Dursley tried to
act normally. When Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the
living room in time to catch the last report on the evening news:
“And fi nally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the
nation’s owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although
owls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight,
there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds fl ying in every
direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why the owls
have suddenly changed their sleeping pattern.”  e newscaster
allowed himself a grin. “Most mysterious. And now, over to Jim
 McGuffi n with the weather. Going to be any more showers of owls
tonight, Jim?”
“Well, Ted,” said the weatherman, “I don’t know about that, but
it’s not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as
far apart as Kent, Yorkshire, and Dundee have been phoning in to
tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they’ve had a
downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have been celebrating
Bonfi re Night early — it’s not until next week, folks! But I can
promise a wet night tonight.”
Mr. Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all over
Britain? Owls fl ying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all
over the place? And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters . . .
chapter one
01
7
Mrs. Dursley came into the living room carrying two cups of
tea. It was no good. He’d have to say something to her. He cleared
his throat nervously. “Er — Petunia, dear — you haven’t heard
from your sister lately, have you?”
As he had expected, Mrs. Dursley looked shocked and angry. After all, they normally pretended she didn’t have a sister.
“No,” she said sharply. “Why?”
“Funny stuff on the news,” Mr. Dursley mumbled. “Owls . . .
shooting stars . . . and there were a lot of funny-looking people in
town today . . .”
“So?” snapped Mrs. Dursley.
“Well, I just thought . . . maybe . . . it was something to do
with . . . you know . . . her crowd.”
Mrs. Dursley sipped her tea through pursed lips. Mr. Dursley
wondered whether he dared tell her he’d heard the name “Potter.”
He decided he didn’t dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could,
“ eir son — he’d be about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t he?”
“I suppose so,” said Mrs. Dursley stiffl y.
“What’s his name again? Howard, isn’t it?”
“Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.”
“Oh, yes,” said Mr. Dursley, his heart sinking horribly. “Yes, I
quite agree.”
He didn’t say another word on the subject as they went upstairs
to bed. While Mrs. Dursley was in the bathroom, Mr. Dursley
crept to the bedroom window and peered down into the front garden.  e cat was still there. It was staring down Privet Drive as
though it were waiting for something.
Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do
the boy who lived
01
8
with the Potters? If it did . . . if it got out that they were related to
a pair of — well, he didn’t think he could bear it.
 e Dursleys got into bed. Mrs. Dursley fell asleep quickly but
Mr. Dursley lay awake, turning it all over in his mind. His last,
comforting thought before he fell asleep was that even if the Potters
were involved, there was no reason for them to come near him and
Mrs. Dursley.  e Potters knew very well what he and Petunia
thought about them and their kind. . . . He couldn’t see how he
and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be going
on — he yawned and turned over — it couldn’t aff ect them. . . .
How very wrong he was.
Mr. Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but
the cat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It was
sitting as still as a statue, its eyes fi xed unblinkingly on the far corner of Privet Drive. It didn’t so much as quiver when a car door
slammed on the next street, nor when two owls swooped overhead.
In fact, it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at all.
A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching, appeared so suddenly and silently you’d have thought he’d just
popped out of the ground.  e cat’s tail twitched and its eyes narrowed.
Nothing like this man had ever been seen on Privet Drive. He
was tall, thin, and very old, judging by the silver of his hair and
beard, which were both long enough to tuck into his belt. He was
wearing long robes, a purple cloak that swept the ground, and
high-heeled, buckled boots. His blue eyes were light, bright, and
sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was very long
and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice.  is
man’s name was Albus Dum ble dore.
chapter one
01_B
9
Albus Dum ble dore didn’t seem to realize that he had just arrived
in a street where everything from his name to his boots was unwelcome. He was busy rummaging in his cloak, looking for something. But he did seem to realize he was being watched, because he
looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring at him from
the other end of the street. For some reason, the sight of the cat
seemed to amuse him. He chuckled and muttered, “I should have
known.”
He found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It
seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. He fl icked it open, held it up
in the air, and clicked it.  e nearest street lamp went out with a
little pop. He clicked it again — the next lamp fl ickered into darkness. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer, until the only lights
left on the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance,
which were the eyes of the cat watching him. If anyone looked out
of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs. Dursley, they wouldn’t
be able to see anything that was happening down on the pavement.
Dum ble dore slipped the Put-Outer back inside his cloak and set
off down the street toward number four, where he sat down on the
wall next to the cat. He didn’t look at it, but after a moment he
spoke to it.
“Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.”
He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was
smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square
glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around its
eyes. She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her black hair
was drawn into a tight bun. She looked distinctly ruffl ed.
“How did you know it was me?” she asked.
“My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffl y.”
the boy who lived
0
10
“You’d be stiff if you’d been sitting on a brick wall all day,” said
Professor McGonagall.
“All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have
passed a dozen feasts and parties on my way here.”
Professor McGonagall sniff ed angrily.
“Oh yes, everyone’s celebrating, all right,” she said impatiently.
“You’d think they’d be a bit more careful, but no — even the Muggles have noticed something’s going on. It was on their news.” She
jerked her head back at the Dursleys’ dark living-room window. “I
heard it. Flocks of owls . . . shooting stars. . . . Well, they’re not
completely stupid.  ey were bound to notice something. Shooting stars down in Kent — I’ll bet that was Dedalus Diggle. He
never had much sense.”
“You can’t blame them,” said Dum ble dore gently. “We’ve had
precious little to celebrate for eleven years.”
“I know that,” said Professor McGonagall irritably. “But that’s
no reason to lose our heads. People are being downright careless,
out on the streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle
clothes, swapping rumors.”
She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Dum ble dore here, as
though hoping he was going to tell her something, but he didn’t, so
she went on. “A fi ne thing it would be if, on the very day YouKnow-Who seems to have disappeared at last, the Muggles found
out about us all. I suppose he really has gone, Dum ble dore?”
“It certainly seems so,” said Dum ble dore. “We have much to be
thankful for. Would you care for a lemon drop?”
“A what?”
“A lemon drop.  ey’re a kind of Muggle sweet I’m rather
fond of.”
chapter one
01
11
“No, thank you,” said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though
she didn’t think this was the moment for lemon drops. “As I say,
even if You-Know-Who has gone —”
“My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call
him by his name? All this ‘You-Know-Who’ nonsense — for eleven
years I have been trying to persuade people to call him by his
proper name: Vol de mort.” Professor McGonagall fl inched, but Dumbledore, who was unsticking two lemon drops, seemed not to notice. “It all gets so confusing if we keep saying ‘You-Know-Who.’ I
have never seen any reason to be frightened of saying Vol de mort’s
name.”
“I know you haven’t,” said Professor McGonagall, sounding half
exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re diff erent. Everyone knows
you’re the only one You-Know- oh, all right, Vol de mort, was frightened of.”
“You fl atter me,” said Dum ble dore calmly. “Vol de mort had
 powers I will never have.”
“Only because you’re too — well — noble to use them.”
“It’s lucky it’s dark. I haven’t blushed so much since Madam
Pomfrey told me she liked my new earmuff s.”
Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Dum ble dore and
said, “ e owls are nothing next to the rumors that are fl ying
around. You know what everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared? About what fi nally stopped him?”
It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point she
was most anxious to discuss, the real reason she had been waiting
on a cold, hard wall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had
she fi xed Dum ble dore with such a piercing stare as she did now. It
was plain that whatever “everyone” was saying, she was not going
the boy who lived
0
12
to believe it until Dum ble dore told her it was true. Dum ble dore,
however, was choosing another lemon drop and did not answer.
“What they’re saying,” she pressed on, “is that last night Voldemort turned up in Godric’s Hollow. He went to fi nd the Potters.  e rumor is that Lily and James Potter are — are — that
they’re — dead.”
Dum ble dore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall gasped.
“Lily and James . . . I can’t believe it . . . I didn’t want to believe
it . . . Oh, Albus . . .”
Dum ble dore reached out and patted her on the shoulder. “I
know . . . I know . . .” he said heavily.
Professor McGonagall’s voice trembled as she went on. “ at’s
not all.  ey’re saying he tried to kill the Potters’ son, Harry.
But — he couldn’t. He couldn’t kill that little boy. No one knows
why, or how, but they’re saying that when he couldn’t kill Harry
Potter, Vol de mort’s power somehow broke — and that’s why he’s
gone.”
Dum ble dore nodded glumly.
“It’s — it’s true?” faltered Professor McGonagall. “After all he’s
done . . . all the people he’s killed . . . he couldn’t kill a little boy?
It’s just astounding . . . of all the things to stop him . . . but how in
the name of heaven did Harry survive?”
“We can only guess,” said Dum ble dore. “We may never know.”
Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and
dabbed at her eyes beneath her spectacles. Dum ble dore gave a great
sniff as he took a golden watch from his pocket and examined it.
It was a very odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It must have
chapter one
01_
13
made sense to Dum ble dore, though, because he put it back in his
pocket and said, “Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was he who told you I’d
be here, by the way?”
“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “And I don’t suppose you’re
going to tell me why you’re here, of all places?”
“I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle.  ey’re the
only family he has left now.”
“You don’t mean — you can’t mean the people who live here?”
cried Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointing at
number four. “Dum ble dore — you can’t. I’ve been watching them
all day. You couldn’t fi nd two people who are less like us. And
they’ve got this son — I saw him kicking his mother all the way up
the street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter come and live here!”
“It’s the best place for him,” said Dum ble dore fi rmly. “His aunt
and uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he’s older.
I’ve written them a letter.”
“A letter?” repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back
down on the wall. “Really, Dum ble dore, you think you can explain
all this in a letter?  ese people will never understand him! He’ll be
famous — a legend — I wouldn’t be surprised if today was known
as Harry Potter Day in the future — there will be books written
about Harry — every child in our world will know his name!”
“Exactly,” said Dum ble dore, looking very seriously over the top
of his half-moon glasses. “It would be enough to turn any boy’s
head. Famous before he can walk and talk! Famous for something
he won’t even remember! Can’t you see how much better off he’ll
be, growing up away from all that until he’s ready to take it?”
Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind,
the boy who lived
01
14
swallowed, and then said, “Yes — yes, you’re right, of course. But
how is the boy getting here, Dum ble dore?” She eyed his cloak suddenly as though she thought he might be hiding Harry underneath
it.
“Hagrid’s bringing him.”
“You think it — wise — to trust Hagrid with something as important as this?”
“I would trust Hagrid with my life,” said Dum ble dore.
“I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right place,” said Professor
McGonagall grudgingly, “but you can’t pretend he’s not careless.
He does tend to — what was that?”
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It
grew steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for
some sign of a headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked up
at the sky — and a huge motorcycle fell out of the air and landed
on the road in front of them.
If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting
astride it. He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least
fi ve times as wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed, and so
wild — long tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his
face, he had hands the size of trash can lids, and his feet in their
leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms he
was holding a bundle of blankets.
“Hagrid,” said Dum ble dore, sounding relieved. “At last. And
where did you get that motorcycle?”
“Borrowed it, Professor Dum ble dore, sir,” said the giant, climbing carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. “Young Sirius Black
lent it to me. I’ve got him, sir.”
chapter one

15
“No problems, were there?”
“No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all
right before the Muggles started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep as
we was fl yin’ over Bristol.”
Dum ble dore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the
bundle of blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep.
Under a tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a curiously shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.
“Is that where — ?” whispered Professor McGonagall.
“Yes,” said Dum ble dore. “He’ll have that scar forever.”
“Couldn’t you do something about it, Dum ble dore?”
“Even if I could, I wouldn’t. Scars can come in handy. I have one
myself above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well — give him here, Hagrid — we’d better get this
over with.”
Dum ble dore took Harry in his arms and turned toward the
Dursleys’ house.
“Could I — could I say good-bye to him, sir?” asked Hagrid. He
bent his great, shaggy head over Harry and gave him what must
have been a very scratchy, whiskery kiss.  en, suddenly, Hagrid
let out a howl like a wounded dog.
“Shhh!” hissed Professor McGonagall, “you’ll wake the Muggles!”
“S-s-sorry,” sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and burying his face in it. “But I c-c-can’t stand it — Lily an’
James dead — an’ poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles —”
“Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or
we’ll be found,” Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagrid
the boy who lived
0
16
gingerly on the arm as Dum ble dore stepped over the low garden
wall and walked to the front door. He laid Harry gently on the
doorstep, took a letter out of his cloak, tucked it inside Harry’s
blankets, and then came back to the other two. For a full minute
the three of them stood and looked at the little bundle; Hagrid’s
shoulders shook, Professor McGonagall blinked furiously, and the
twinkling light that usually shone from Dum ble dore’s eyes seemed
to have gone out.
“Well,” said Dum ble dore fi nally, “that’s that. We’ve no business
staying here. We may as well go and join the celebrations.”
“Yeah,” said Hagrid in a very muffl ed voice, “I’d best get this
bike away. G’night, Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir.”
Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid swung
himself onto the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; with a
roar it rose into the air and off into the night.
“I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall,” said
Dum ble dore, nodding to her. Professor McGonagall blew her nose
in reply.
Dum ble dore turned and walked back down the street. On the
corner he stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. He clicked it
once, and twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so
that Privet Drive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out a
tabby cat slinking around the corner at the other end of the street.
He could just see the bundle of blankets on the step of number
four.
“Good luck, Harry,” he murmured. He turned on his heel and
with a swish of his cloak, he was gone.
chapter one

17
A breeze ruffl ed the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent
and tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect
astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside his
blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on the letter
beside him and he slept on, not knowing he was special, not knowing he was famous, not knowing he would be woken in a few
hours’ time by Mrs. Dursley’s scream as she opened the front door
to put out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next few
weeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley. . . . He
couldn’t know that at this very moment, people meeting in secret
all over the country were holding up their glasses and saying in
hushed voices: “To Harry Potter — the boy who lived!”
the boy who lived

18
chapter two
Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken
up to fi nd their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive
had hardly changed at all.  e sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number four on the Dursleys’ front door;
it crept into their living room, which was almost exactly the same
as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had seen that fateful
news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago,
there had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink
beach ball wearing diff erent-colored bonnets — but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large
blond boy riding his fi rst bicycle, on a carousel at the fair, playing
a computer game with his father, being hugged and kissed by his
mother.  e room held no sign at all that another boy lived in the
house, too.
the vanishing glass
02
19
Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not
for long. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice
that made the fi rst noise of the day.
“Up! Get up! Now!”
Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.
“Up!” she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the
kitchen and then the sound of the frying pan being put on the
stove. He rolled onto his back and tried to remember the dream he
had been having. It had been a good one.  ere had been a fl ying
motorcycle in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the same dream
before.
His aunt was back outside the door.
“Are you up yet?” she demanded.
“Nearly,” said Harry.
“Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And
don’t you dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s
birthday.”
Harry groaned.
“What did you say?” his aunt snapped through the door.
“Nothing, nothing . . .”
Dudley’s birthday — how could he have forgotten? Harry got
slowly out of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair
under his bed and, after pulling a spider off one of them, put them
on. Harry was used to spiders, because the cupboard under the
stairs was full of them, and that was where he slept.
When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen.
 e table was almost hidden beneath all Dudley’s birthday presents. It looked as though Dudley had gotten the new computer he
the vanishing glass
02
20
wanted, not to mention the second television and the racing bike.
Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing bike was a mystery to Harry,
as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise — unless of course it involved punching somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching bag was
Harry, but he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it, but he
was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard,
but Harry had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked
even smaller and skinnier than he really was because all he had
to wear were old clothes of Dudley’s, and Dudley was about four
times bigger than he was. Harry had a thin face, knobbly knees,
black hair, and bright green eyes. He wore round glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley
had punched him on the nose.  e only thing Harry liked about
his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was
shaped like a bolt of lightning. He had had it as long as he could
remember, and the fi rst question he could ever remember asking
his Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it.
“In the car crash when your parents died,” she had said. “And
don’t ask questions.”
Don’t ask questions — that was the fi rst rule for a quiet life with
the Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the
bacon.
“Comb your hair!” he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his
newspaper and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must
have had more haircuts than the rest of the boys in his class put
chapter two

21
 together, but it made no diff erence, his hair simply grew that way
— all over the place.
Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen
with his mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a
large pink face, not much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick
blond hair that lay smoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia
often said that Dudley looked like a baby angel — Harry often said
that Dudley looked like a pig in a wig.
Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was
diffi cult as there wasn’t much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was
counting his presents. His face fell.
“ irty-six,” he said, looking up at his mother and father. “ at’s
two less than last year.”
“Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present, see, it’s
here under this big one from Mummy and Daddy.”
“All right, thirty-seven then,” said Dudley, going red in the face.
Harry, who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began
wolfi ng down his bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned
the table over.
Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she said
quickly, “And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out
today. How’s that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right?”
Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally
he said slowly, “So I’ll have thirty . . . thirty . . .”
“ irty-nine, sweetums,” said Aunt Petunia.
“Oh.” Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel.
“All right then.”
Uncle Vernon chuckled.
the vanishing glass
02_
22
“Little tyke wants his money’s worth, just like his father. ’Atta
boy, Dudley!” He ruffl ed Dudley’s hair.
At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to
answer it while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap
the racing bike, a video camera, a remote control airplane, sixteen
new computer games, and a VCR. He was ripping the paper off a
gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia came back from the telephone
looking both angry and worried.
“Bad news, Vernon,” she said. “Mrs. Figg’s broken her leg. She
can’t take him.” She jerked her head in Harry’s direction.
Dudley’s mouth fell open in horror, but Harry’s heart gave a
leap. Every year on Dudley’s birthday, his parents took him and a
friend out for the day, to adventure parks, hamburger restaurants,
or the movies. Every year, Harry was left behind with Mrs. Figg, a
mad old lady who lived two streets away. Harry hated it there.  e
whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs. Figg made him look at
photographs of all the cats she’d ever owned.
“Now what?” said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry as
though he’d planned this. Harry knew he ought to feel sorry that
Mrs. Figg had broken her leg, but it wasn’t easy when he reminded
himself it would be a whole year before he had to look at Tibbles,
Snowy, Mr. Paws, and Tufty again.
“We could phone Marge,” Uncle Vernon suggested.
“Don’t be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy.”
 e Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he
wasn’t there — or rather, as though he was something very nasty
that couldn’t understand them, like a slug.
“What about what’s-her-name, your friend — Yvonne?”
chapter two
02
23
“On vacation in Majorca,” snapped Aunt Petunia.
“You could just leave me here,” Harry put in hopefully (he’d be
able to watch what he wanted on television for a change and maybe
even have a go on Dudley’s computer).
Aunt Petunia looked as though she’d just swallowed a lemon.
“And come back and fi nd the house in ruins?” she snarled.
“I won’t blow up the house,” said Harry, but they weren’t
listening.
“I suppose we could take him to the zoo,” said Aunt Petunia
slowly, “. . . and leave him in the car. . . .”
“ at car’s new, he’s not sitting in it alone. . . .”
Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn’t really crying — it
had been years since he’d really cried — but he knew that if he
screwed up his face and wailed, his mother would give him anything he wanted.
“Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him spoil
your special day!” she cried, fl inging her arms around him.
“I . . . don’t . . . want . . . him . . . t-t-to come!” Dudley yelled
between huge, pretend sobs. “He always sp-spoils everything!” He
shot Harry a nasty grin through the gap in his mother’s arms.
Just then, the doorbell rang — “Oh, good Lord, they’re here!”
said Aunt Petunia frantically — and a moment later, Dudley’s best
friend, Piers Polkiss, walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny
boy with a face like a rat. He was usually the one who held people’s
arms behind their backs while Dudley hit them. Dudley stopped
pretending to cry at once.
Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe his luck, was sitting in the back of the Dursleys’ car with Piers and Dudley, on the
the vanishing glass
0
24
way to the zoo for the fi rst time in his life. His aunt and uncle
hadn’t been able to think of anything else to do with him, but before they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside.
“I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large purple face
right up close to Harry’s, “I’m warning you now, boy — any funny
business, anything at all — and you’ll be in that cupboard from
now until Christmas.”
“I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, “honestly . . .”
But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did.
 e problem was, strange things often happened around Harry
and it was just no good telling the Dursleys he didn’t make them
happen.
Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barbers looking as though he hadn’t been at all, had taken a pair of
kitchen scissors and cut his hair so short he was almost bald except
for his bangs, which she left “to hide that horrible scar.” Dudley
had laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless night
imagining school the next day, where he was already laughed at for
his baggy clothes and taped glasses. Next morning, however, he
had gotten up to fi nd his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt
Petunia had sheared it off . He had been given a week in his cupboard for this, even though he had tried to explain that he couldn’t
explain how it had grown back so quickly.
Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a
revolting old sweater of Dudley’s (brown with orange puff balls).
 e harder she tried to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed
to become, until fi nally it might have fi tted a hand puppet, but
 certainly wouldn’t fi t Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided it must
chapter two
02
25
have shrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Harry wasn’t punished.
On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble for being
found on the roof of the school kitchens. Dudley’s gang had been
chasing him as usual when, as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone
else’s, there he was sitting on the chimney.  e Dursleys had received a very angry letter from Harry’s headmistress telling them
Harry had been climbing school buildings. But all he’d tried to do
(as he shouted at Uncle Vernon through the locked door of his cupboard) was jump behind the big trash cans outside the kitchen
doors. Harry supposed that the wind must have caught him in
mid-jump.
But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth being with Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere that
wasn’t school, his cupboard, or Mrs. Figg’s cabbage-smelling living
room.
While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia. He
liked to complain about things: people at work, Harry, the council,
Harry, the bank, and Harry were just a few of his favorite subjects.
 is morning, it was motorcycles.
“. . . roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,” he said,
as a motorcycle overtook them.
“I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry, remembering
suddenly. “It was fl ying.”
Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turned
right around in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like a gigantic
beet with a mustache: “MOTORCYCLES DON’T FLY!”
Dudley and Piers sniggered.
the vanishing glass

26
“I know they don’t,” said Harry. “It was only a dream.”
But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was one thing the
Dursleys hated even more than his asking questions, it was his talking about anything acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was
in a dream or even a cartoon — they seemed to think he might get
dangerous ideas.
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with
families.  e Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate ice
creams at the entrance and then, because the smiling lady in the
van had asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry him
away, they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. It wasn’t bad, either,
Harry thought, licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching its
head who looked remarkably like Dudley, except that it wasn’t
blond.
Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was
careful to walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley
and Piers, who were starting to get bored with the animals by
lunchtime, wouldn’t fall back on their favorite hobby of hitting
him.  ey ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley had a tantrum because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have enough ice cream
on top, Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was allowed to fi nish the fi rst.
Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it was all too
good to last.
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark
in there, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all
sorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits of
wood and stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous
chapter two

27
cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly found
the largest snake in the place. It could have wrapped its body twice
around Uncle Vernon’s car and crushed it into a trash can — but at
the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at
the glistening brown coils.
“Make it move,” he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped
on the glass, but the snake didn’t budge.
“Do it again,” Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass
smartly with his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
“ is is boring,” Dudley moaned. He shuffl ed away.
Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the
snake. He wouldn’t have been surprised if it had died of boredom
itself — no company except stupid people drumming their fi ngers
on the glass trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to wake you up; at least he got to visit
the rest of the house.
 e snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly, it
raised its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry’s.
It winked.
Harry stared.  en he looked quickly around to see if anyone
was watching.  ey weren’t. He looked back at the snake and
winked, too.
 e snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and Dudley,
then raised its eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said
quite plainly:
“I get that all the time.”
the vanishing glass
02_Va
28
“I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn’t
sure the snake could hear him. “It must be really annoying.”
 e snake nodded vigorously.
“Where do you come from, anyway?” Harry asked.
 e snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry
peered at it.
Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
“Was it nice there?”
 e boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry
read on:  is specimen was bred in the zoo. “Oh, I see — so you’ve
never been to Brazil?”
As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harry
made both of them jump. “DUDLEY! MR. DURSLEY! COME
AND LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU WON’T BELIEVE
WHAT IT’S DOING!”
Dudley came waddling toward them as fast as he could.
“Out of the way, you,” he said, punching Harry in the ribs.
Caught by surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete fl oor. What
came next happened so fast no one saw how it happened — one
second, Piers and Dudley were leaning right up close to the glass,
the next, they had leapt back with howls of horror.
Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor’s
tank had vanished.  e great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly,
slithering out onto the fl oor. People throughout the reptile house
screamed and started running for the exits.
As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a low,
hissing voice said, “Brazil, here I come. . . .  anksss, amigo.”
 e keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
chapter two

29
“But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass go?”
 e zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong,
sweet tea while he apologized over and over again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber. As far as Harry had seen, the snake hadn’t
done anything except snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but
by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car, Dudley was
telling them how it had nearly bitten off his leg, while Piers was
swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for
Harry at least, was Piers calming down enough to say, “Harry was
talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?”
Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house before starting on Harry. He was so angry he could hardly speak. He
managed to say, “Go — cupboard — stay — no meals,” before he
collapsed into a chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get him a
large brandy.
Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had a watch.
He didn’t know what time it was and he couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet. Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking to
the kitchen for some food.
He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable
years, as long as he could remember, ever since he’d been a baby
and his parents had died in that car crash. He couldn’t remember
being in the car when his parents had died. Sometimes, when he
strained his memory during long hours in his cupboard, he came
up with a strange vision: a blinding fl ash of green light and a burning pain on his forehead.  is, he supposed, was the crash, though
he couldn’t imagine where all the green light came from. He
the vanishing glass
02
30
couldn’t remember his parents at all. His aunt and uncle never
spoke about them, and of course he was forbidden to ask questions.
 ere were no photographs of them in the house.
When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed of
some unknown relation coming to take him away, but it had never
happened; the Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes he
thought (or maybe hoped) that strangers in the street seemed to
know him. Very strange strangers they were, too. A tiny man in a
violet top hat had bowed to him once while out shopping with
Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harry furiously if he knew
the man, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without
buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed all in green
had waved merrily at him once on a bus. A bald man in a very long
purple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street the other day
and then walked away without a word.  e weirdest thing about all
these people was the way they seemed to vanish the second Harry
tried to get a closer look.
At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley’s
gang hated that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and nobody liked to disagree with Dudley’s gan
